---
layout: post
title:  "On Education"
date:   2024-06-11 05:05:53 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---

Taking a line from Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged, I'd find that a lot of the time, education tries to "reverse the law of causality" by hoping to get kids interested in subject matter by making them doing it without depending on their own will to discover, and exercise their curiosity, or revealing to them the scope of the study, which would surely help in making whatever the student wants to study more relevant. I'm going off to college in about a two months from now, and I seriously doubt that I will be given an earnest reason for learning the things I'm interested in from any of my professors, in the manner that I please. Going on github, and feeling the strong current of technical exercise in thought, which has its tributaries across all parts of the world, makes me want to stay up nights to learn however much I can, without a hint of discoruagement- in such a state, I have divorced means from ends, I no longer care about being employed, or doing things for any sense of accomplishment- moving with the current satisfies me. I hope I will never forget to live this experience, and never see myself in the center of the world's events; our senses, I think, are the greatest liars, whipping up self-importance where there really is none. The experience of creating things, and learning how things function, is a collective one. It is shared by all persons with the same mind at any given occasion, when one person with this mind responds to their curiosity. May each of us never stop learning, may each of us never grow stale. Remaining young is a choice.                                                                                                       
I've just read some of geohot's tweets; sometimes they are very inspiring; he's convinced me of a number of things on AI, and what the world really is. 

"Some of the current upper class will embrace the change, the pie will grow, and even if they have a smaller percent of it, they may end up with a lot more in absolute. They may even adapt themselves and come along to the new. Not all will fall. It is the members who fear (rightfully so) a massive loss of status with the collapse of these systems that will fight tooth and nail to retain them. These are the most dangerous on the way down, but they will lose. The credentialed clowns without skill. The people who majored in fake subjects. Those who got their fake jobs through connections. This applies to companies as well as individuals. And this is a story as old as time. Being able to make honest sense of the world is a superpower. Having hangups that prevent understanding is crippling.  "

Though he takes a hardliner stance on many points- favoring 'winners' and 'losers', bashing on those without 'talent' and speaking about intelligence without afterthought, I love him dearly. He represents, I think, many things that the average person would like to be, someone who can live their own lives doing their own thing, and do good for things of justice and freedom. Open-sourcing, and painting the world in definite terms- those remain at the center of his philosophy. He shuns "phoniness," just as everyone should; he finds pride in mathematics and science, prefering to be a pupil of Nature, than one of man's unnatural instutions.

In watching him stream, and thinking of the qualifications of 'education' as described above, I really think that he's among the few who have gathered a real 'education' from the resources avaliable to him. I think of education, not in terms of product, but in terms of what a man does each moment. At a given second, he can be described 'educated' or the inverse. It's a particular kind of mind, I'd think.
