---
layout: post
title:  "The Mind"
date:   2024-06-13 05:05:53 -0400
categories: jekyll update
---

The mind is a lot of things, I've been hoping to be a little more meditative; in my previous post I spoke of how the education was merely a mental state, I wish to delineate it here.

* Quieteude is most sanctioned, like a temple.
* Attitudes are thrown away.
* Feelings are not felt.
* As in the previous post, thinking least of one's 'self' is important: 
    > The ego is either dissolved or ignored by thinking of the world first,
    > and admitting that a single person is but a small part of a grand expression of Nature.
* A more local form of the above is seeing one's self in collaboration with a team, or mentally sitting beside others, who are doing the same form of work as one is. Imagine what Adeeb, or Harold might be doing at this moment, how would I act if I were sitting beside them?
    * I must be as good as they are. There is only one true university, one place in the world that will ever teach a thing, because it is the student that must set out to learn it by himeslf: github.com
* What would happen if me and George switched places while streaming? While I can't do what he can, I must be at least able to describe everything that he does, I have to be better due to this.
* The divinity of our origin should be kept in mind- peer above to the stars, how moral they are.


Much of the above has to do with the study and practice of disciplines. The last few points are philsophical, and encompass theories of "the world at large," and "serving that which is eternal in the universe, and forgoing everything else," which is comparable to Buddhist/ Transcendental ethics. A personal connection that can be made is in imagining a piano student stepping into a studio, about to take a lesson from his teacher. It should be the same degree of resepect, and peacable observance, with a discipline. Walk near a computer, and respect the thought that went into processor/os design. And be quiet. 

